## chapter 01

**Data Science** is a computation science of extracting meaningful insights from raw data and then effectively communicating those insights to to generate value.

**Data Engineering** is an engineering domain that's dedicated to building and maintaining systems that overcome data processing bottlenecks and data handling problems for applications that consume, process, and store large volumes, varieties, and velocities of data.

Commonly three varieties worked by Data Scientists and Data Engineers

  * **Structured Data**: Data is stored, processed, and manipulated in a traditional relational database managements system. (RDBMS) Oracle / MySQL, PostGRES

  * **Unstructured**: Data is usually generated by human activity and doesn't fit into a structured database.

  * **Semistructured** *: Data doesn't fit into a structured database system, but is nonetheless structured by tags that are useful for creating a form of order and hierarchy in the data.

----

Data and the need for data-informed insights are ubiquitous. e.g. Amazon using machine learning for predicting
buyer's next purchase.
Organizations of all sizes are beginning to recognize that they're immersed in a sink-or-swim, data-driven, competitive environment, data know-how emerges as a core and requisite function in almost every line of business.


 # Who Can use Data Science ?

 **your organization, your employer can**

 Data science represents a change in the way you approach the world. When exacting outcomes, people often used to make their best guess, act, and then hope for their desired result. With data insights, however, people have access to the predictive vision that they need to truly drive change and achieve the results they need.

 **Business Systems** Optimize returns on investments for any measurable activity.

 **Technical marking strategy development** Use data insights and predictive analytics to identify marketing strategies that work, eliminate under-performing efforts, and test new marking strategies.


*Data Engineers* - are specialists who are constantly finding innovative and powerful new ways to capture, collate, and condense large amounts of massive volumes of data.

*Data scientists* - are leading change by deriving valuable and actionable insights from that data.

**Data-science** represents the optimization of processes and resources. Data science produces *data insights* --actionable, data-informed conclusions or predictions that you can use to understand and improve your business, your investments, your health, and lifestyle.

Using data science insights is like being able to see in the dark. For any goal or pursuit you can imagine, you can find data science methods to help you predict the most direct route from where you are to where you want to be -- and to anticipate every pothole in the road between both places.

Almost all industries are reliant on data.

**Business Systems**: Optimize returns on investments for any measurable activity.

**Technical Marketing strategy development**: use data insights and predictive analytics to identify marketing strategies that work, eliminate under-performing efforts, and test new marketing strategies.

**Keep communities safe:** Predictive policing applications help law enforcement predict and prevent crime.

**Help Make the world better for less fortunate** Data scientists in developing nations are using social data, mobile data, and data from websites to generate real-time analytics that improve the effectiveness of humanitarian response to disaster, epidemics, food scarcity issues, and more.

CSV files, scripts , e.g. Python, R, Application files : e.g. Excel, Web Programming files: build custom, web-based visualization in D3.js -- or Data-Driven Documents, a JavaScript library for data visualization. When working in D3.js you use data to manipulate web-based documents .html, .svg, .css

**Applying mathematical modeling to data science tasks**

Data science relies heavily on a practitioner's math skills. These are the skill needed to understand data and its significance. These skills are also valuable in data science -- you carry them out for predictive forecasting, decision modeling and hypotheses testing.

Mathematics uses deterministic methods to form a quantitative ( numerical ) description; stats is a form of science that's derived from math, but focuses on **stochastic** probabilities approach and inferential methods to form a quantitative description of the world.

Data Scientists use mathematical methods to build decision models, generate approximations, and make predictions about the future.


## Deriving insights from statistical methods

Data science, statistical methods are useful for better understanding your data's significance, for validating hypotheses, for simulating scenarios, and for making predictive forecasts of future events. Advanced stat skills are somewhat rare, even among quantitative analysts, engineers and scientists. *linear and logistic regression, naive Bayes classification, and time series analysis.

## Applying data science to a subject area

Statistician say data science is nothing new. Data science is a distinct from statistical approaches that compromise it.


